.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2021 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd March 5, 2021
.Dt GNUNET-BASE32 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-base32
.Nd encode/decode to Crockford base32 encoding
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl d | -decode
.sp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
By default, encodes data read from standard input into
Crockford base32 and writes the result to standard output.
The inverse operation is performed if the option
.Fl --decode
is given.  Note that the tool keeps all of the data in
memory and is largely intended for quick debugging and
not for high performance.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d | -decode
Run in decode mode instead of in encode mode.
.It Fl h | -help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl v | -version
Print GNUnet version number.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
